WConio -- Windows CONsole I/O module for Python

Created 2/3/2001 by Chris Gonnerman
based on code by Daniel Guerrero Miralles
This source code is public domain.

This module is based heavily on the TCCONIO package; the notes
from the top of the source are as follows:

    Old Turbo-C CONIO.H compatibility library for LCC-Win32
    and GCC/EGCS Mingw32 compilers.
    Version 1.0 (September 1999).
    Created by Daniel Guerrero Miralles (daguer@geocities.com).
    This source code is public domain.

I see no reason to add my copyright to this code.  

NEITHER AUTHOR IS RESPONSIBLE FOR ANY PROBLEMS WITH THIS CODE.  
DAMAGES OF ANY SORT ARE ENTIRELY THE RESPONSIBILITY OF THE USER.  
USE OF THIS CODE INDICATES ACCEPTANCE OF THESE TERMS.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Gah.  I hate that stuff.

The conio.h functions of old Borland Turbo-C don't map perfectly to
Python, so I have taken some liberties.  Also, Daniel did not 
implement the window() functionality so neither have I.

Screen coordinates are based at 0, 0 (logical for Python, but counter
to the tradition of conio.h).

Here is the synopsis:

WConio.error (aka _WConio.error) is thrown for exceptions special to 
this module.

WConio.cgets(length) gets (and echos) a string up to length 
characters long.  VERY MINIMAL editing is allowed (basically 
backspace).

WConio.clreol() clears from the cursor position to the end of the 
line.

WConio.clrscr() clears the screen and homes the cursor.

WConio.cputs(string) prints a string starting at the current cursor
position.  Some control characters are handled, but unlike the
traditional version '\n' doesn't drop a line in the same column,
instead it acts like '\r\n'.

WConio.delline() remove a line at the current cursor position, 
scrolling the lower part of the frame up.

WConio.getch() retrieves a keystroke from the console, returning a 
tuple of (number, string) containing the numeric and character values 
for the key hit.  getch() does not echo, and delays until a key is
available.  If the key hit has no character representation a null
string ('') is returned.  Note that special keys will arrive in two
steps, either a null byte followed by a scancode or 0340 followed by
a scan code for gray keys.

WConio.getche() works exactly like getch(), but if the key read is 
printable it is echoed.

WConio.getkey() is my contribution... it always returns a single 
string value, with special names for non-ascii keys.  Valid keynames
are listed in WConio.py, so I won't repeat them here.

WConio.gettext(left, top, right, bottom) copies characters and 
attributes from the screen coordinates given and returns them in a
string buffer.  Usually used with puttext() below.

WConio.gettextinfo() returns a tuple of display information.  It 
mirrors the info returned by the traditional version:

    - left, top, right, bottom:  window coordinates
    - textattr, normattr: current attributes
    - videomode:  current video mode
    - height, width:  screen size
    - curx, cury:  current cursor position

Some information is faked.

WConio.gotoxy(x, y) positions the cursor at the given coordinates.

WConio.highvideo() activates bold (bright) video mode.

WConio.insline() inserts a blank line at the current position, 
scrolling down the rest of the screen.

WConio.kbhit() returns true if a keystroke is in the buffer, false 
otherwise.  If it returns true, getch()/getkey() won't block.

WConio.lowvideo() activates low intensity (dim) video mode.

WConio.movetext(left, top, right, bottom, x, y) moves the given text 
region to the new x, y position.
 
WConio.normvideo() activates normal intensity video mode.  
Fundamentally equal to lowvideo().

WConio.putch(ch) expects either a numeric or single-character string 
and prints it at the current position.

WConio.puttext(left, top, right, bottom, saved) puts the given saved 
text block on the screen at the given coordinates.  The left, top, 
right, bottom coordinates should *probably* match the geometry of the 
similar coordinates used in the gettext() call.

WConio.setcursortype(n) changes the appearance of the text-mode 
cursor.  The values for n are 0 for no cursor, 1 for normal cursor,
2 for block cursor.

WConio.textattr(attr) changes the text attribute (color) for new 
text.  The data value is formatted with the foreground color in the 
lower nibble, and the background color in the upper.  This differs 
from the traditional version in that blinking is not available, but 
high-intensity backgrounds are available.  See below for the color 
constants.

WConio.textbackground(color) sets the background color without 
changing the foreground.  See below for the color constants.

WConio.textcolor(color) sets the foreground color without changing 
the background.  See below for the color constants.

WConio.textmode() resets default video mode, clears the screen, homes 
the cursor, and puts the cursor shape back to normal.

WConio.ungetch(ch) pushes a keystroke back into the keyboard buffer.  
ch may be either an integer value or one-character string.  Only one 
byte can be pushed back this way; that means that special keys can't
be pushed, since they involve a two-byte sequence.

WConio.wherex() returns the current cursor x position.

WConio.wherey() returns the current cursor y position.

The WConio module also contains constants for colors, named in all-
uppercase; review WConio.py for details.

